# User Manual

This repository is the home of a writing project, powered by
[daily-writing](https://github.com/ewjoachim/daily-writing).

## How to deploy

- In [Pages settings](/settings/pages), under Source, use GitHub Action. (It's always a good idea to ensure HTTPS is checked).
- You may need to commit for this to take effect, so maybe take this opportunity to update the content of this [README](/README.md) which powers the homepage of your site
- A few seconds after committing, your website should be deployed at `{github-username}.github.io/{github-repository-name}` unless you have
  configured GitHub pages with a custom domain.

### How to use a custom domain

See [Github's doc](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/configuring-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site)

## How to configure, how to add writings

Please refer to the [`daily-writing` doc](https://github.com/ewjoachim/daily-writing) for configuration details and how to add new writing so that they appear properly.

### Using the web interface

Once your website is deployed, head to `{github-username}.github.io/{github-repository-name}/admin` (or `your-custom-domain.com/admin`), log in using a token as instructed, then edit your website's settings, and add writings.

#### How to avoid using a GitHub Token to log in

While not strictly necessary, it's possible to log into the web interface without a token, though it requires a bit more steps. You will need a [Cloudflare](https://cloudflare.com) account.

Follow the [instructions from this repository](https://github.com/sveltia/sveltia-cms-auth).

> [!NOTE]
> Step 4 mentions: "Update your Sveltia configuration". You can do it by
> adding the following to [`daily-writing.toml`](/daily-writing.toml)
> (replacing values as appropriate)
> ```toml
> [cms_config.backend]
> repo = "{github-username}/{github-repository-name}"
> name = "github"
> base_url = "https://<url-of-your-worker>.workers.dev/"
> ```

### Editing your website manually

Your website is entirely generated by the files here:
- [`daily-writing.toml`](/daily-writing.toml) for the configuration
- [`README.md`](/README.md) for the homepage
- Markdown files under `<year>/<month>` for your writings.

Editing those files through `git` or through the GitHub interface should work too.

### Favicon

One way of generating a nice favicon is by using favicon.io .
Once you get the favicon files, upload them to the [`static`](/static) folder of the repo and commit.

Update the relevant parts of [`daily-writing.toml`](/daily-writing.toml) (look for `icon-links`).

If you've used favicon.io, chances are you won't even have to change a thing, just upload your own files in place of the default ones.

## That's it, but you're not on your own

Feeling lost ? [Open a ticket](https://github.com/ewjoachim/daily-writing/issues/new?title=I+feel+lost) in the `daily-writing` repository.
